adapted from 
https://books.google.com/books?pg=PA243&lpg=PA243&sig=jFeFvAa6Y0InXfOIyJU1rornf_Q&id=i2xEAQAAMAAJ&output=text
referencing
https://books.google.com/books?id=iGsAAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA38#v=onepage&q&f=false

The Astrologer's Prediction or The Maniac's Fate

Reginald, sole heir of the illustrious family of De Venoni, was remarkable from earliest infancy for a wild and enthusiastic disposition. His father, it was currently reported, had died of an hereditary insanity; and his friends, when they marked the wild mysterious intelligency of his eye, and the determined energy of his aspect, would often assert, that the malady still lingered in the veins of his son. Whether such was the case or not, certain it is, that his mode of existence was but ill calculated to eradicate any symptoms of insanity. Left at an early age to the guidance of his mother, who, since the death of her husband, had lived in strict seclusion, he experienced but little variety to divert or enliven his attention. The gloomy chateau in which he resided was situated in Suabia on the borders of the Black Forest. It was a wild isolated mansion, built after the fashion of the day in the gloomiest style of Gothic architecture.  At a distance rose the ruins of the once celebrated Castle of Rudstein, of which but a mouldering tower remained; and, beyond, the landscape was terminated by the leafy coverts of the Black Forest.

Such was the spot in which the youth of Reginald was immured, until his solitude was somewhat enlivened by the arrival of an unexpected resident. On the anniversary of his eighteenth year, a stranger, apparently worn down by age and infirmities, took up his abode in the tower of Rudstein. He seldom stirred out during the day, and from the circumstance of his perpetually burning a lamp in the turret, the villagers sagaciously concluded that he was an emissary of the devil. This report soon acquired publicity, and having reached the ears of Reginald, through the medium of a gossiping gardener, his curiosity was awakened, and he resolved to introduce himself into the presence of the sage, and ascertain the motives of so singular a seclusion. Impressed with this resolution, he, one night, quitted the chateau of his mother, and bent his steps towards the ruin. As the clock from the village church struck twelve, he gained the turret, and ascending the time-worn stair-case, which tottered at each step he took, reached with some labour the apartment of the philosopher. The door was thrown open, and the old man was seated by the grated casement. His appearance was singularly impressive. A long white beard depended from his chin, and his feeble frame, with difficulty, supported a horoscope that was directed to the heavens. Books, written in unknown characters of cabalism, were promiscuously strewed about the floor, and an alabaster vase, engraved with the signs of the Zodiac, was stationed on the table. The appearance of the astrologer was equally impressive.—He was habited in a suit df black velvet, fancifully embroidered with gold, and belted with a silver band, to which a wand of ebony was attached. On the entrance of a stranger, he rose from his seat, and bent a scrutinizing glance on the anxious countenance of Reginald. “Child of ill-starred fortunes,” he exclaimed, “dost thou come to pry into the secrets of futurity? avoid me for thy, life, or what is dearer still, thine eternal happiness; for I say, unto thee, Reginald Di Venoni, it is better that thou hadst never been born than permitted to haunt a spot which, in after years, shall be the witness of thy fall.” 

The countenance of the Astrologer as he uttered these words, was singularly terrific, and rung in the ears of Reginald like his death-knell. “I am innocent, father,” he faulteringly replied, “nor will my disposition suffer me to perpetrate the sins you speak of.” --“Hah!” resumed the prophet, “man is indeed innocent, till the express moment of his damnation; but the star of thy destiny already wanes in the heaven, and the fortunes of Venoni are no more. Look to the West--yon planet that shines so brightly in the night-sky, is the star of thy nativity. When next thou shalt behold it, shooting downward like a meteor through the hemisphere, think on the words of the prophet and tremble. A deed of blood will be done, and thou art he that shall perpetrate it!” 

At this instant, the moon peeped forth from the dim clouds that lagged slowly in the firmament. To the West a single bright star was visible--the star of Reginald's nativity. He gazed with eyes fixed in the breathless intensity of expectation, till the passing clouds concealed it from his view. The astrologer, meantime, had resumed his station at the window. He raised the horoscope to heaven, while his form seemed labouring with convulsion. Twice he passed his hand across his brow, and shuddered as he beheld the aspect of the heavens. “But a few days,” he said, “but a few brief days of wretchedness and guilt, and then shall my spirit be at rest. The star of my own fate is dim, and the heart of the prophet is faint with decay. Away!” he continued, motioning Reginald from his side, “disturb not the last few moments of a dying man; in three days return, and under the base of this ruin inter the corpse you will find mouldering within. Away!” 

Impressed with a strange awe, Reginald could make no reply. He remained as it were entransed; and after the lapse of a few minutes rushed from the tower, and returned in a state of disquietude to the gloomy chateau of his mother.

The three days had now elapsed, and, faithful to his promise, Reginald pursued his route back to the tower. He reached it at nightfall, and tremblingly entered the fatal apartment. All within was silent, and his steps returned a hollow echo as he passed The astrologer, as before, was seated by the window, apparently in profound abstraction, and the horoscope was placed by his side. Fearful of disturbing. his repose, Reginald approached with caution. The old man stirred not. Emboldened by so unexpected a silence, he advanced, and looked at the countenance. It was a corpse he gazed on—the relic of what had once been life! Petrified with horror at the sight, the memory of his former promise escaped him: and he fled in agony from the apartment. 

For many days the fever of his mind continued unabated; be frequently became delirious, and in the hour of lunacy, was accustomed to talk of an evil spirit that had visited him in slumber. His mother was shocked at such evident symptoms of derangement. She remembered the fate of her husband; and implored Reginald, as he valued her affection, to recruit his spirits by travel. With some difficulty he was induced to quit the home of his infancy: the expostulations of the Countess at last prevailed; and he left the chateau Di Venoni, for the sunny climes of Italy.

Time rolled on; and a constant succession of novelty had produced so beneficial a change, that scarcely any traces remained of his former melancholy moodiness." Occasionally, his mind was disturbed, but a perpetual recurrence of amusement diverted the influence of past recollection, and rendered him as tranquil as it was in the power of his nature to permit. He continued for years abroad, during which time he wrote frequently to his mother, who still resided at the chateau Di Venoni, and at last announced his intention of settling finally at Venice. He had remained there but a few months, when, at the gay period of the Carnival, he was introduced to the beautiful daughter of the Doge. She was amiable, accomplished, and endowed with every requisite to ensure permanent felicity. Reginald was charmed with the excelling qualities of her mind; he confessed his attachment, and a blush informed him that the affection was mutual. Nothing therefore remained, but an application to the Doge; who was instantly addressed on the subject, and implored to consummate the felicity of the young couple. The request was attended with success, and the happiness of the lovers was complete.

On the day fixed for the wedding, a brilliant assemblage of beauty thronged the ducal palace of Saint Mark. All Venice crowded to the festival, and in the presence of the gayest Italian noblesse, Reginald Count Di Venoni received the hand of Marcelia, the envied daughter of the Doge. In the evening, a masqued festival was given at the palace, but the young couple, anxious to be alone, escaped the scene of revelry, and hurried in their gondola to the chateau appointed for their reception.

It was a fine moonlight night: the mild beams of the planets sparkled on the silver bosom of the Adriatic, and the light tones of music “by distance made more sweet,” came wafted on the summer gale. A thousand lamps from the illuminated squares of the city reflected their burnished hues along the wave, and the mellow chaunt of the gondoliers kept time to the gentle plashing of their oars. The heart of Reginald was full, and the witching spirit of the hour passed with all its loveliness into his soul. On a sudden, a deep groan escaped him. He had looked to the Western hemisphere, and the star, which at that instant flashed brightly in the horizon, recalled the awful scene which he had witnessed in the tower of Rudstein. The eye of the fatalist sparkled with delirious brilliancy, and, had not a shower of tears come opportunely to his relief, the consequences might have been hazardous. 

A few months had now elapsed from the period of his marriage, and the heart of Reginald was happy. He loved Marcelia, and was tenderly beloved in return. Nothing therefore remained to complete his felicity, but a visit from his mother, to whom he was enthusiastically attached. He wrote, accordingly, to entreat her presence; but was informed by her confessor, in reply, that she was dangerously ill, and requested the immediate attendance of her son. On the receipt of this afflicting intelligence he hurried with Marcelia to the chateau Di Venoni. The countess was alive when he entered; but the exertion of so unexpected an interview was too great for her agitated spirits, and she expired in the act of folding him to her arms. 

From this moment the mind of Reginald assumed a tone of the most confirmed dejection. He followed his mother to the grave, and was observed to smile with unutterable meaning, as he returned from the funeral. The chateau Di Venoni increased the native depression of his spirits, and the appearance of the ruined tower never failed to imprint a frown upon his brow. He would wander for days amid the gloomiest recesses of the Black Forest, and, when the storm was high in heaven, he would boldly brave its terrors; or, seated on the ridge of some Alpine precipice, gaze on the abyss below, where a torrent, scarcely heard, foamed in cataracts along. The morning sunshine and the mellow twilight passed by unnoticed, save as they soothed or irritated his melancholy temperament. Marcelia did all that in her lay to assuage such anguish, but the disorder remained unabated: Sometimes, when the fit was on him, he would repulse her with fury; but in his gentler moments would gaze on her as on a sweet vision of vanished happiness.

He was one eventag wandering with her through the village, when his conversation assumed a more dejected tone than usual. The sun was slowly setting, and their route back to the chateau lay through the church-yard, where the ashes of the Countess reposed. Reginald seated himself with Marcelia by the grave, and plucking a few wild flowers from the turf exclaimed, “Are you not anxious to join my mother, sweet girl? She has gone to the land of the blest--to the land of love and sunshine! If we are happy in this world, what will be our state of happiness in the next? Let us fly then, to unite our bliss with her’s, that the measure of our joy may be full.” As he uttered these words his eye glared with delirium, and his hand seemed searching for a weapon. Marcelia, alarmed at his appearance, hurried him from the spot, and clasping his hand in her’s, drew him gently onward. 

The sun in the meantime had subk, and the stars of evening came out in their glory. Brilliant above all shone the fatal western planet, the star of Reginald's nativity. He observed it with horror, and pointed it out to the notice of Marcelia: “The hand of heaven is in it!” he mentally exclaimed, “and the proud fortunes of Venoni hasten to a close.” At this instant, the tower of Rudstein appeared in sight with the moon shining full upon it. “It is the place,” resumed the maniac, “where a deed of blood must be done, and I am he that must perpetrate it. But fear not, my poor girl,” he added in a milder tone; “thy Reginald cannot harm thee; he may be wretched, but he shall never be guilty.” With these words he reached the chateau, and threw himself on his couch in restless anxiety of mind.
  
Night waned, morning dawned on the upland lands of the scenery, and with it came a renewal of Reginald's disorder. The day was storymn, and in unison with the troubled feeling of his spirit. He had been absent from Marcelia since day-break, and had given her no promise of return. But as she was seated at the twilight near the lattice, playing on her harp a favourite Venetian canzonet, the folding doors flew open, and Reginald made his appearance. His eye was red with the deadliest madness, and his frame seemed unusually convulsed. “”Twas not a dream!” he exclaimed; “again have I seen her, and again has she beckoned me to follow.”--“Seen her? seen who?” said Marcelia, alarmed at his phrenzy. “My mother!” replied the maniac. “Listen while I repeat the horrid narrative. Methought I flew to join her, but was withheld by a sage who pointed to the Western star. On a sudden her countenance assumed the wild aspect of a daemon; her figure towered to an awful height, and she pointed in scornful derision to thee—yes, to thee, my Marcelia. With rage she drew thee towards me!—I seized, I murdered thee, and hollow groans broke on the gale! The voice of the fiendish astrologer was heard shouting as from a charnel-house, “The destiny is accomplished, and the victim may retire with honor.” Then methought the front of heaven was obscured, and thick gouts of blood showered down in clotted. torrents from the West. The star shot through the air, and--, the phantom of my mother again beckoned me to follow.” 

The maniac ceased, and rushed in agony from the apartment. Marcelia followed and discovered him leaning in a trance against the wainscot of the library. With gentlest motion she drew his hand in her's, and led him into the open air. They rambled on, heedless of the gathering storm, until they discovered themselves at the base of the tower of Rudstein. Suddenly the maniac paused. A horrid thought seemed. flashing across his brain, as with giant grasp he seized Marcelia in his arms and bore her to the fatal apartment. In vain she shrieked for pity. He heard, he heeded not, nor once staid his steps till he reached the room of death. On a sudden his countenance lost its wildness, but assumed a more composed look of determined madness. He advanced towards the window and gazed on the stormy face of nature. To the West the fatal star was still visible, but shone with a sickly lustre. At this instant a flash of lightning illumed the whole apartment, and threw a broad red glare upon a skeleton that mouldered on the floor. Reginald observed it with affright, and remembered the unburied astrologer. He advanced to Marcelia, and pointed to the rising 'moon. “A dark cloud is sailing by,” he shudderingly exclaimed, “but 'ere the full orb again shine forth, thou shalt die! I will accompany thee in death, and, hand in hand, will we pass into the presence of our mother.” . The poor girl implored compassion, but her voice was lost in the angry ravings of the storm. The cloud, meantime, sailed on,--it approached--the moon was dimmed, darkened, and finally obscured. The maniac marked the hour, and rushed with a fearful cry towards his victim. With murderous resolution he grasped her throat, while the upraised hand and half-strangled articulation vainly besought mercy. After one convulsive struggle the timid eye ceased to implore, for the murderer held a corpse in his arms. An interval of reason now occurred, and Reginald discovered Marcelia hanging dead upon his bosom. Madness--deepest madness again took possession of his faculties. He laughed--he shouted aloud with the unearthly yellings of a fiend, and in the raging violence of his delirium, hurled himself headlong from the summit of the tower.

In the morning the bodies of the young couple were discovered, and buried in the same tomb. The fatal ruin of Rudstein still exists; but is now commonly avoided as the residence of he spirits of the departed. Day by day it slowly crumbles to earth, and affords a shelter for the night raven, or the wild brutes of the forests. Superstition has consecrated it to herself, and the tradition of the country has invested it with all the awful appendages of a charnel house. The wanderer who passes at night-fall, shudders while he surveys its utter desolation, and exclaims as he journies on "Surely this is a spot where guilt may thrive in safety, or bigotry weave a spell to enthrall her misguided votaries."
